un Aid Chief Martin Griffith has said
there are positive developments in talks
to open the kamam shalom shalom border
crossing in Israel to increase
humanitarian Aid into Gaza bues once
again expressed grave concern about the
ongoing attacks in Gaza highlighting the
lack of meaningful Aid
distribution we do not have a
humanitarian
operation in southern
Gaza that can be called by that name
name
anymore that the pace of the
military assault in southern Gaza is a
repeat of the assault in Northern
Gaza that it has made no place
safe for civilians in southern Gaza
which had been a
Cornerstone of the humanitarian plan to
protect civilians and thus to provide
Aid to
them but without places of safety that
plan is in
tatters and so what we have at the
moment in Gaza Northern Gaza even more
difficult but in Gaza where we have
trucks still crossing daily through the
Rafa
Crossing is at
best humanitarian opportunism
to try to reach through some roads which
are still accessible which haven't been
mined or destroyed to some people who
can be found where some food or some
water or some other Supply can be
given but it's a program of
opportunism it's
erratic it's
undependable and frankly it's not
sustainable all right let's go to
Kristen salumi there she joins us live
from the United Nations Headquarters
despite the hope for resumption of Aid
which we heard uh from Martin Griffith
there through Karam Shalom that the ba
basic question is though to what
extent will the US position formulate
when it comes to those diplomatic moves
going on where you are Christen to try
and and get a more meaningful ceasefire
in
place
well I should point out that the world
food program today is saying that uh 87
to
93% of families in Gaza now don't have
enough food to eat on a daily basis
that's their latest estimate uh and
given that and given the precarious
situation that Martin griffit just
described for Aid getting into the area
and actually getting to the people who
need it uh and the safety of Aid workers
there with all of that as the backdrop
drop that is what prompted the UN
Secretary General to again raise the
issue of a humanitarian ceasefire and
invoke the strongest tool he has in his
toolbox to put it on the agenda of the
security
Council but the security Council uh
while it has been discussing a
humanitarian ceasefire resolution still
seems unable to act uh the United States
uh has been opposed to council taking
further action there I asked the US
Deputy Ambassador earlier today if that
position had changed and this is what he
said our position hasn't changed uh we
again think that the best thing to try
that we can do all of us uh for the
situation on the ground is to let the
quiet behind the scenes diplomacy that's
ongoing continue and that's we think the
best hope for trying to improve the
situation on the ground uh with regard
to humanitarian uh relief for getting
hostages out and for trying to move you
know forward on some toward some kind of
process the Security Council is
scheduled to meet on Friday uh however
absent a resolution from the council the
best hope at the United Nations now for
getting more Aid in is the opening of a
second border crossing at Kem Shalom and
uh there has been positive developments
on that front according to Martin griffi
the UN relief Chief uh however the
situation he said minus a ceasefire will
remain very precarious for workers and
for the civilians they're trying to help
all right thanks so much Christen salumi